docs: Provide CN translation for wsl.rst (#1472)
espressif/vscode-esp-idf-extension: docs_espressif/en/additionalfeatures/wsl.rst

Using WSL in Windows
====================

:link_to_translation:`zh_CN:[中文]`

This tutorial guides you on developing projects using Visual Studio Code with **ESP-IDF extension** and **Remote - WSL** to implement all features of these extensions in WSL.

Install the following tools before starting the project:

1. Windows WSL (see installation steps below)
2. `Visual Studio Code <https://code.visualstudio.com>`_
3. `usbipd-win <https://github.com/dorssel/usbipd-win/releases>`_

Installing Ubuntu on Windows (WSL)
----------------------------------

> If WSL is not installed, run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install WSL, run:
```

.. code-block::

    wsl --install

> Update the WSL kernel with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the WSL kernel:
```

.. code-block::

    wsl --update

Check the available WSL distributions using the ``Powershell`` command prompt:

.. code-block::

    wsl -l -o

.. image:: ../../../media/tutorials/using_docker_container/wsl-l-o.png

To install a Ubuntu distribution in WSL on Windows, type the following command:

.. code-block::

    wsl --install --distribution Ubuntu

``usbipd-win`` in WSL
---------------------

To access USB, serial, and JTAG devices from the local Windows system, you must install ``usbipd-win``. Without it, downloading, monitoring, and debugging on the IDF Docker image is not possible. The installation process is similar to other Windows applications and will not be detailed here.

> After installing the necessary tools, perform the following configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing all the required tools, configure WSL as follows:
```

Check Ubuntu on Windows (WSL)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Verify that the current WSL version is 2.

    .. code-block::

        wsl -l -v

    .. image:: ../../../media/tutorials/using_docker_container/wsl-l-v.png

2.  If the version is not 2, upgrade to version 2.

    .. code-block::

        wsl --set-version Ubuntu 2

3.  Set the Ubuntu distribution as the default.

    .. code-block::

        wsl -s Ubuntu

> 4.  Finally, verify that above commands have taken effect using the ``wsl --status`` command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4.  Confirm the settings using the ``wsl --status`` command.
```

.. image:: ../../../media/tutorials/using_docker_container/esp-idf.png

Open Project in WSL
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Start your development by clicking the ``><`` button at the bottom left of Visual Studio Code. Select **Open Folder in WSL** to configure the WSL and open the ``Blink`` example project.

Configure the ESP-IDF extension inside WSL as described in :ref:`Install ESP-IDF and Tools <installation>`.

.. note::

    Running the setup from WSL could override the Windows host machine configuration settings since it uses **User Settings** by default. Consider saving settings to a **workspace** or **workspace folder**.

You can now use the ``Blink`` example project for building, flashing, monitoring, debugging, etc.

Building Your Project
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For example, to use ESP32-C3, change the target device from ``esp32`` to ``esp32c3`` as shown below:

.. image:: ../../../media/tutorials/using_docker_container/device_target_esp32_c3.png

Next, start building the example project:

.. image:: ../../../media/tutorials/using_docker_container/container_build.gif

Flashing to your Device
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> After building, you can download the firmware using the following methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After building, flash the firmware using one of the following methods.
```
